{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue24;\red243\green235\blue0;
\red198\green50\blue253;\red132\green221\blue253;\red26\green26\blue26;\red66\green66\blue66;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red10\green0\blue109;\red163\green217\blue121;\red255\green83\blue8;\red255\green39\blue18;\red134\green205\blue77;
\red236\green186\blue254;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c12549;\csgenericrgb\c95294\c92157\c0;
\csgenericrgb\c77647\c19608\c99216;\csgenericrgb\c51765\c86667\c99216;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c32941\c32941\c32941;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c4314\c0\c50196;\csgenericrgb\c63922\c85098\c47451;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c32549\c3137;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c15294\c7059;\csgenericrgb\c52549\c80392\c30196;
\csgenericrgb\c92549\c72941\c99608;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10740\viewh7900\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Ohm's Law\'a0deals with the relationship between voltage and current in an ideal conductor. It helps in solving simple circuits. \cb4 The \cb5 equation \cb4 for Ohm's law is used interchangeably\cb1 . \cb6 These interchangeable forms are: V = I R, I = V/R or R = V/I where the term conductance, g = 1/R may be used at times. \cf7 \strokec7 Ohm's law\'a0is also used to refer to various generalisations of the law originally formulated by Ohm such as J = \uc0\u963 E where J = I(A) / A where A is an infinitesimal area, E = F/q and \u963  is the surface conductivity. The complex generalization for reactive circuits is given as Z = sL for an inductor, Z = 1/sC for a capacitor and hence we write, V = I Z where V and I are complex scalars and Z is the complex impedance. For a common case of a steady sinusoid, s = j\cf8 \strokec8 \uc0\u969  corresponding to a complex sinusoid s(t) = Ae^(j\u969 t).
\fs28 \cf7 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf7 \cb1 \dn10 \cb9 \up0 The law was named after the German physicist\'a0\cf2 \strokec10 Georg Ohm\strokec7 .\cf7  Ohm in a treatise published in 1827, described measurements of applied voltage and current through simple electrical circuits containing various lengths of wire.
\f1\fs28 \cb1 \

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb9 Ohm's law is an\'a0\strokec10 empirical law\strokec7 , a generalisation from many experiments that have shown that current is approximately proportional to electric field for most materials. It is less fundamental than\'a0\strokec10 Maxwell's equations\strokec7 \'a0and is not always obeyed.\'a0\cb1 \strokec3 Conductors that do not follow Ohm'a Law are said to be non ohmic conductors. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb11 Consider an\cf0  \cb12 example\cf13 \cb11  \cf2 that helps in better understanding Ohm's Law.\cb14 \
\cb15 There exists a circuit consisting of a 12 V battery and the resistance of the resistor is 6000 \strokec7 \uc0\u937 , we apply Ohm's Law to compute the current (mA) flowing in this circuit. \
I = 12 V / 6000\outl0\strokewidth0  \uc0\u937  = I = 0.02A = 20mA\cb17 \
The above calculations exemplify how a linear relationship between voltage and current exist via Ohm's law for ideal conductors. More complex problems can be solved where \cb9 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 resistors which are in\'a0\strokec10 series\strokec7 \'a0or in\'a0\strokec10 parallel\strokec7 \'a0may be grouped together into a single "equivalent resistance" in order to apply Ohm's law in analysing the circuit.}